# Math clips

Some instructional math animations created using the
[manim](https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/) "community edition",
library, which is itself a fork of
[3b1b/manim](https://github.com/3b1b/manim) created by Grant Sanderson
of [3Blue1Brown](https://www.youtube.com/@3blue1brown) fame.


## Content subject matter 

These clips are mostly inspired by topics encountered while working
through [_Quantum Computation and Quantum Information_ by Michael
A. Nielsen and Isaac
L. Chuang](https://www.cambridge.org/highereducation/books/quantum-computation-and-quantum-information/01E10196D0A682A6AEFFEA52D53BE9AE#overview),
supplemented by:

* [_Abstract Algebra_ by I. N. Herstein](https://www.amazon.com/Abstract-Algebra-I-N-Herstein/dp/0471368792)
* [_Linear Algebra Done Right_ by Sheldon Axler](https://linear.axler.net/)

## Individual clips/scenes                                                         

- `ngon-vector.py` The vectors inscribing a regular $n$-gon inscribed on the unit circle sum to zero. This comes up in the derivations for using Quantum Fourier Transform (QFT) for period-finding, where terms in the exponent that aren't multiples of 2𝜋 drop away for this reason. It's nice to see it.
- `conjugacy.py` Very simple visualization of the conjugacy classes of the Symmetric Group $S_3$. The idea here is that $a$ and $b$ are _conjugate_ if $\exists g \in G$ s.t. $b=gag^{-1}$, or hand-wavily: $a$ and $b$ are (or can be considered) the "same" by w.r.t. the group action $g$, because you can get from one to the other by "doing $g$ and then "undoing $g$". This property can be made concrete for $S_3$ where the conjugacy classes happen to be identical to a partitioning by _order_. Intuitively, you can turn any order-2 permutation (aka, transposition) into another (eg, $a = (1, 2)$ and $b = (2, 3)$ ) by carefully choosing another permutation $g$ to put the elements into place appropriately _and then put them back_ with $g^{-1}$. This is "nice" because it can illuminate the structure / invariance / symmetry of the group. For example, note that the conjugacy relation is always trivial in Abelian groups.
- `cosets.py` Simple visualization of the cosets of $\mathbb{Z}_{12}$ for the cyclic subgroup $<4>$ (ie, generated by 4), along with a periodic function $f(x)$ obeying the "Hidden Subgroup Problem" (HSP) property of being _constant within_ and _distinct across_ cosets. HSP generalizes the notion of function periodicity to a more abstract group-theoretic setting, with the (very loose) upshot being that this formulation generalizes many problems of interest that can be efficiently tackled with QFT.
- `matrix.py` $Ax=b$ 
- `queue_flow.py` simple animation of a processing queue with fixed processing (work) time and nonuniform arrival times. In the left-hand diagram, the number of entries intersected by the moving vertical timeline gives the queue depth at any point in time. Also noteworthy is the long cycle time on the final item due to arriving after the "burst" of work filling the queue ahead of it.
- `linear_compose.py` visualize the mechanics of matrix multiplication as emerging natural from the composition of linear maps between finite vector spaces. Inspired by the presentation from _Linear Algebra Done Right_ by Sheldon Axler.
- `coset_partition_quotient.py` make ANY homomorphism _injective_ with this ONE WEIRD TRICK (take quotient group of the domain with respect to the kernel)

## How to run 

_Assuming the environment is all set up nicely_ (🫠), movies can be generated like:

```
manim -p cosets.py CosetsAndWaveInZ12
```

If `manim` is not found, your shell likely has not loaded the Nix/direnv environment yet:

```
direnv allow
direnv reload
which manim
manim --version
```

If `direnv` integration is not enabled in your shell, you can still enter the flake shell directly:

```
nix develop
manim --version
```

### Apple Silicon (macOS) note

If `direnv reload` / `nix develop` fails with a `glibc-nolibgcc ... not available on aarch64-apple-darwin` error, update to the latest version of this repo: the flake drops `moderngl-window` on Darwin so the dev shell can evaluate cleanly.

When rendering on macOS in this shell, prefer the Cairo backend:

```
manim --renderer=cairo -p cosets.py CosetsAndWaveInZ12
```
